MobileNet - emre570 (#102)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 2 - Convolutional Neural Networks/mobilenetPT.mdx

### Depthwise Seperable Convolutions

In traditional convolutional layers, each filter applies its weight across all input channels simultaneously. Depthwise separable convolutions break this down into two steps: depthwise convolution followed by pointwise convolution.  

This step performs a convolution separately for each channel (a single color or feature) in the input image using a small filter (usually 3x3). The output of this step is the same size as the input but with fewer channels.

### Pointwise Seperable Convolutions

This type of convolution applies a single filter (usually 1x1) across all channels in both input and output layers. It has fewer parameters than regular convolution and can be seen as an alternative to fully connected layers, making it suitable for mobile devices that have limited computational resources.

After depthwise convolution, this step combines the filtered outputs from previous steps using another 1x1 convolutional layer. This operation effectively aggregates the features learned by the depthwise convolutions into a smaller set of features, reducing the overall complexity while retaining important information.

> ### Why We Use This Convolutions Instead of Regular Convolutions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why Do We Use These Convolutions Instead of Regular Convolutions?
```

To better understand, let's simplify it and explain:

#### Regular Convolutions - Big, All-in-one Filter:

Imagine you have a big, thick filter (like a sponge with many layers). This filter is applied over the entire image. It processes all parts of the image and all its features (like colors) at once. This requires a lot of work (computation) and a big filter (memory).

#### Depthwise Separable Convolutions - Two-Step, Lighter Process:
MobileNet does this process basic. It splits the big filter into two smaller, simpler steps:

 - **Step 1 - Depthwise Convolution:** First, it uses a thin filter (like a single layer of a sponge) for each feature of the image
   separately (like processing each color individually). This is less work because each filter is small and simple.
   
 - **Step 2 - Pointwise Convolution:** Then, it uses another small filter (just a tiny dot) to mix these features back together. This step is like taking a summary of what the first filters found.

> #### What this all means?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### What does this all mean?
```

MobileNet uses these two smaller steps instead of one big step, it's like doing a lighter version of the work needed in regular convolutions. It's more efficient, especially on devices that aren't very powerful, like smartphones.

With smaller filters, MobileNet doesn't need as much memory. It's like needing a smaller box to store all your tools, making it easier to fit into smaller devices.

> ### How 1x1 Convolutions Work Compared to Normal Convolutions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How Do 1x1 Convolutions Work Compared to Normal Convolutions?
```

> Certainly! Let's explain how a 1x1 convolution (kernel) works in comparison to normal convolutions in a straightforward manner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's explain how a 1x1 convolution (kernel) works in comparison to normal convolutions in a straightforward manner:
```

Reviewer: "Certainly" implies yes/no question, and the title was a "how"

### Channel-wise Linear Bottleneck Layers
Channel-wise linear bottleneck layers help to further reduce the number of parameters and computational cost while maintaining high accuracy in image classification tasks.

A channel-wise linear bottleneck layer consists of three main operations applied sequentially:  
1. **Depthwise convolution:** This step performs a convolution separately for each channel (a single color or feature) in the input image using a small filter (usually 3x3). The output of this step is the same size as the input but with fewer channels.  
2. **Batch normalization:** This operation normalizes the activation values across each channel, helping to stabilize the training process and improve generalization performance.  
3. **Activation function:** Typically, a ReLU (Rectified Linear Unit) activation function is used after batch normalization to introduce non-linearity in the network.

> ### What ReLU does?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What Does ReLU Do?
```

        self.dw_conv13 = DepthwiseSeparableConv(512, 1024, 2)
        self.dw_conv14 = DepthwiseSeparableConv(1024, 1024, 1)

        self.avg_pool = nn.AdaptiveAvgPool2d(1)
        self.fc = nn.Linear(1024, num_classes)

    def forward(self, x):
        x = self.conv1(x)
        x = F.relu(x)

        x = self.dw_conv2(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv3(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv4(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv5(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv6(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv7(x)
        x = F.relu(x)

        x = self.dw_conv8(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv9(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv10(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv11(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv12(x)
        x = F.relu(x)

        x = self.dw_conv13(x)
        x = F.relu(x)
        x = self.dw_conv14(x)
        x = F.relu(x)

        x = self.avg_pool(x)
        x = x.view(x.size(0), -1)
        x = self.fc(x)

        return x

# Example of creating a MobileNet model
mobilenet = MobileNet(num_classes=1000)
print(mobilenet)
```

> You can also find downloadable MobileNet model via this HuggingFace [link](https://huggingface.co/google/mobilenet_v2_1.0_224).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also find a pretrained MobileNet model checkpoint on [HuggingFace Hub](https://huggingface.co/google/mobilenet_v2_1.0_224).
```
